## Find a recipe from your fridge
At a grocery store, everything looks good to eat. When it comes time to make a meal, it is difficult to come up with a recipe. There are many websites that will give you a recipe if you know what you want, but there is no application to find a recipe based off of ingredients that you already own. This application would go find a recipe based off of ingredients that a person has in their pantry/fridge. 

For the API portion, there are two great ones [SpoonacularApi](https://spoonacular.com/food-api) and the [EdamamAPI](https://developer.edamam.com/edamam-recipe-api) api. Both of these have fairly good documentation and have been around for a while. 

As far as algorithms go, one must be used to compare the data to what is used in the recipe. Another algorithm will have to be used to decrement the ingredients that are in the fridge/pantry after the recipe is selected. These decremented ingredients will be stored in persistent storage to be used later in a different recipe. There will have to be a way to delete these old ingredients in case they expire or are used up without telling the app. 

This idea is worth doing because often when you go shopping you might purchase an ingredient for a specific dish and wonder how it might be utilized later. After a while these ingredients spoil or are left in the pantry until they are tossed out. This application will allow users to better utilize the ingredients they already have, saving money and expanding thier collection of recipes. The app will hopefully introduce users to new cuisines and unlike meal delivery services such as Blue Apron, wil not require the user to buy into expensive subscription services. Additionally, given the current status of the pandemic, many are looking to reduce the ammount of trips taken the grocery store. We hope this app will allow users to purchase in bulk, while maximizing the number of unique dishes they can create from each trip. 

The application will feature a robust search function allowing users to search by cuisine types like Mexican, Vietnemese, Thai, American Southern, etc. As well as caloric information, dietary restrictions, and portion sizes. As well the application will help users to keep track of what ingredients they have in thier fridge. For instance, when at the store, users will be able to remind themselves if they need to purchase more eggs, milk, etc. The application will also keep track of experation dates, so the user knows when to replace these items. 

For difficulty the project would rated around a 7 to 8 with room to add more complex features as the project becomes more fleshed out. It would utilize everything learned in the class so far, as well as meeting the requirments of the project. Requiring external API calls, a robust database, and a functional, user-friendly front-end. 